Attempting to document Private[...] (#2150)
strawberry-graphql/strawberry: docs/types/private.md

---
title: Private Fields
---

# Private Fields

> Private (external) fields can provide local context for later resulution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private (external) fields can provide local context for later resolution.
```

> These fields will act as plain dataclass fields and not become attached to
> strawberry resolvers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields will act as plain fields will not be exposed in the GraphQL API.
```

Reviewer: :+1:

Some uses include:

- Context that relies upon field inputs.
- Avoiding fully materializing an object hierarchy (lazy resolution)

# Defining a private field

> Specifying a field with `strawberry.Private[...]` will desigate the field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifying a field with `strawberry.Private[...]` will designate the field
```

> as for dataclasses, and not a graphql field.

Reviewer: I wouldn't use dataclasses terminology here, we shouldn't assume people know what dataclasses are or how they work 😊

Reviewer: yes, that might be better 😊

# Example

Consider the following type, which can accept any Python object and handle
converting it to string, representation, or templated output:

```

@strawberry.type
class Stringable:

>     object: strawberry.Private[dict]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    value: strawberry.Private[object]
```

value might be a better name, since it doesn't conflict with the builtin object type

    @strawberry.field
    def string(self) -> str:
        return str(self.object)

    @strawberry.field
    def repr(self) -> str:
        return repr(self.object)

    @strawberry.field
    def format(self, template: str) -> str:
        return template.format(my=self.object)

```

> The Private[...] cast lets strawberry know not to try to resolve it as a
> GraphQL field. Instead, "object" is a regular dataclass style parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Private[...]` type lets Strawberry know that this field is not a GraphQL field. "value" is a regular field on the class, but it is not exposed on the GraphQL API.
```
